---
layout: layouts/post.njk
title: "Frontend Engineering Position on the Yahoo! Openness Strategy Team"
author: "Unknown"
date: 2009-05-26
slug: "f2ejobs-20090526"
permalink: /blog/2009/05/26/f2ejobs-20090526/
categories:
  - "Frontend Jobs at Yahoo"
---
We noted [a few frontend engineering positions available at Yahoo!](/yuiblog/blog/2009/05/22/f2ejobs-20090522/) last week, and we have another one to share with you today. [This position is a senior F2E role focusing on Yahoo!'s platforms for developers](http://careers.yahoo.com/jdescription.php?oid=22173) — our "Openness Strategy," or YOS.

### About YOS

The Yahoo! Openness Strategy Team is building the next generation of open platforms and integrating them into every part of Yahoo!. From platforms that add a social element to every aspect of Yahoo!, to an applications platform and developer-focused offerings, the YOS team is tasked with transforming the way Yahoo! works. In building out all the components of YOS, the team is focused on implementing distributed systems that are highly scalable and performant so they can reliably serve hundreds of millions of Yahoo! users and developers every day.

#### Job Responsibilities

You will be part of the engineering team that focuses on Yahoo! application platform (YAP), which enables developers to build web applications that are available throughout Yahoo! — the largest audience in the world. You will contribute to the architecture, design and implementation of innovative features and services for this platform. You will work closely with the rest of the engineering team, product managers, QA engineers and external partners who build applications on this platform.

#### Minimum Qualifications

1.  7+ years of industry experience working directly with the full web technology stack: browsers, web servers and databases
2.  Strong command of browser-side client technologies including Ajax, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, DOM JSON, cross-browser compatibility issues, optimization techniques and internationalization issues
3.  Experience with application development using Java or PHP
4.  Strong command of client/server programming with AJAX
5.  Excellent written and verbal communication skills
6.  Extensive experience with object-oriented design and development techniques
7.  Familiarity with software development life cycle and best practices
8.  BS in Computer Science or equivalent. MS in Computer Science preferred

#### Preferred Qualifications

1.  Knowledge of using Javascript toolkits such as YUI or jQuery
2.  Experience with JSP compiler implementation
3.  Experience with Open Social or Shindig implementation

You can view the job posting and apply at the following URL: [http://careers.yahoo.com/jdescription.php?oid=22173](http://careers.yahoo.com/jdescription.php?oid=22173). Yahoo! Inc. is an equal opportunity employer. For more information or to search all of our openings please visit [http://careers.yahoo.com](http://careers.yahoo.com).