---
layout: layouts/post.njk
title: "Two Frontend Engineering Positions at Yahoo!"
author: "Eric Miraglia"
date: 2009-05-22
slug: "f2ejobs-20090522"
permalink: /blog/2009/05/22/f2ejobs-20090522/
categories:
  - "Frontend Jobs at Yahoo"
---
When we post job announcements at Yahoo!, we often preface them with the following pitch:

_Think about impacting 1 out of every 2 people online--in innovative and imaginative ways that are uniquely Yahoo!. We do just that each and every day, and you could too. After all, it's big thinkers like you who will create the next generation of Internet experiences for consumers and advertisers across the globe. Now's the time to show the world what you've got. Put your ideas to work for over half a billion people._

This pitch is never more true than with positions in frontend engineering/web development at Yahoo!, where products and platforms have a unique reach and impact. And we're always looking for engineers whose talent and passion is as unique as the opportunity. Here are a couple of positions we're looking to fill right now — positions building on Yahoo!'s great tradition in the discipline of frontend engineering, using and improving tools like YUI, and helping to make the internet more delightful and powerful for Yahoo!'s half a billion users.

### Javascript Platform Developer

**Location:** Sunnyvale, CA.

The Presentation Framework Group is building new frameworks, creating libraries and tools that will allow other developers and editors to build web sites quickly and efficiently. You will be working with product managers and developers to understand the requirements and needs. You will be creating specifications, designing, implementing tools and APIs. You will be using YUI libraries for creating the extensible UI.

_Minimum Job Qualifications:_

-   JavaScript expert.
-   Proficient in writing standards compliant HTML, CSS, Ajax, DOM
-   3-4 years of cross browser application development experience
-   Experience with PHP
-   Well versed with XML
-   Experience using YUI
-   Self starter with the ability to work under pressure and handle multiple simultaneous tasks.
-   Strong verbal and written communication skills.  
    

To apply for this position, please click on the following link: [http://careers.yahoo.com/jdescription.php?oid=21972](http://careers.yahoo.com/jdescription.php?oid=21972).  

Yahoo! Inc. is an equal opportunity employer. For more information or to search all of our openings, please visit [http://careers.yahoo.com](http://careers.yahoo.com).

### Front-End Engineer

**Location:** Sunnyvale, CA.

Want to work on an application with a user base measured in the millions and not thousands? Are you interested in Maps or Geo Technology? Passionate about Front-End Engineering? If so, then we want to talk with you. We're looking for a motivated and experienced engineer to join the Yahoo! Maps team. In this role, you would be working on the Maps destination ([http://maps.yahoo.com](http://maps.yahoo.com)) and helping to support internal maps-related efforts on other Yahoo! properties. The ideal candidate has strong skills in frontend technologies, but is quite comfortable with Shell Scripting (Perl/Bash) and Apache Configuration. You're a team player that is focused on great user experiences with a laser sharp eye for detail. Sound like you? Let us hear it!

_Minimum Qualifications:_

-   BS/MS in Computer Science or equivalent
-   Strong skills in PHP, Javascript/AJAX, CSS and HTML
-   Ability to write clean, concise cross-browser code
-   Previous experience as a Front-End Engineer
-   Comfortable developing in a UNIX environment
-   Solid oral and written communication skills
-   Experience working with XML and/or JSON

_Desired:_

-   2-4 years experience in web application development
-   Experience configuring Apache
-   Experience with version control software (CVS or SVN)
-   Experience with Yahoo! APIs (specifically YUI and Maps AJAX API)
-   Knowledge on any of the following is a plus: REST/Web Services, i18n, l10n

To apply for this position, please click on the following link: [http://careers.yahoo.com/jdescription.php?oid=21920](http://careers.yahoo.com/jdescription.php?oid=21920).

Yahoo! Inc. is an equal opportunity employer. For more information or to search all of our openings, please visit [http://careers.yahoo.com](http://careers.yahoo.com).